---
layout: post
title:  "My First Steps Toward a Daily AI Process"
tags: AI daily-life tools
categories: AI
---


## My First Steps Toward a Daily AI Process

As I am sure many of people others have already figured out, this year AI has moved from being a novelty to really becoming a game changer.

I have been using AI for a few years now with GitHub CoPilot and it massively accelerated my development process. But recently I tried to up my game with other tools such as Windsurf and Cursor.

The output that I am able to get out of these LLMs have been frankly quite impressive. Espically when dealing with librariesy I am less familiar with, I have found that it has helped me much more quickly understand how to use them and come up with working solutions.

## The Goal

Because AI has been so helpful in my coding workflow, I want to find a way to help make it a part of my daily workflow. And use it to help me with daily task.

Specifically with this article I am going to focus on more effectively asking AI questions in a fast and more organized way.

## My Current Process

Right now when I want to use Gemini I generally open up a new tab and paste in my question. It is clear to me that even though my questions include little context that Gemini processes them to create a better prompt for itself internally and still returns a good response.

While this is fine for most of my questions, I would like to be able to give stronger prompts more consistently to get better results.

## The Proposed Process

There is the idea of "Gemini Gems" which I have played around with and they work great. But they cant take time to construct and you have to remember to use them.

I found a suggestion on line of using a "Text Expander" to save a set of custom prompt templates, that I can quickly edit and use to give better results.

I have never used a Text Expander before but it seems like a solid idea so I found [Espanso](https://espanso.org/) which works with Fedora (a little tricky on Wayland but not too bad).

### Using Espanso

Now that I installed Espanso I need to create a set of custom prompt templates. So I am starting of basic.

Being a Red Hat employee I use have used AI Chat Engines to ask questions about Red Hat Products, especially around Red Hat OpenShift. One issue I found is that I often get information that applies to a different Version of the product than the one I am currently using. So lets create a prompt template that will give me the information I need for the version of the product I am currently using.

First I am going to open up the the `~/.config/espanso/match/base.yml` file (using the command `espanso config`) and add my prompt:

````yaml
- trigger: ":ai-rhocp"
  replace: |

  # Red Hat Openshift Question
  * **Goal:** [Help me understand these logs]
  * **Version:** e.g., OCP 4.14 on AWS IPI.
  * **Problem:** What's happening vs. what you expect? Include any error messages.
  * **Base Domain:** [apps.rosa.jland.guid.ab.openshiftapps.com]

  ```yaml
  # Paste relevant YAML here
  ```

````

Now when I want to trigger my prompt while inside of Gemini I can just type `:ai-rhocp` and it will replace it with my prompt.

<video width="600" controls>
  <source src="assets/post/2025-10-05-using-ai/demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## Next Steps

Now that I have created a basic prompt I want to expand to create other prompts for different tools. For that I am going to save my config file in a separate git repository that can be found [here](https://github.com/Jaland/Espanso-Prompt-Dataset), and will hopefully grow over time.

I even AI'ed up a little workflow so I can create my prompts in separate files and then combine them into a single config file automagically!

## Conclusion

This is my first foray into using AI to help me with my daily workflow. I am sure there are many ways to improve this process and still a lot of stuff to learn, but I hope to keep up with this and try to document my journey here incase anyone else is interested in doing the same.